# Vehicle-with-advanced-safety-system-project
This is my Diploma final year project. Actually, this is a hardware project. Nowadays, In India people face some problems about increase in the number of car accidents, increase in the number of car thefts, drink and drive, etc. So to overcome this problem we came with a solution called “Vehicle with advanced safety system”. If we add this type of security in every vehicle it is very useful for everyone. We added some sensors in our project like Fingerprint sensor, Alcohol sensor, Gas sensor, Fire sensor, Etc. By using fingerprint sensors we protect the vehicle from thefts. By using a fingerprint sensor we start the vehicle. If any person who drinks alcohol &amp; travels from the vehicle we find that person by using an alcohol sensor. With the help of a gas leakage detector we detect the hazardous gas which is present in our car and harmful for our vehicle. Suppose unfortunately, there will be a vehicle accident in future, then with the help of GSM Module the message of vehicle accident is automatically sent to that number which is saved by the microcontroller. Also we get the exact location of the vehicle by using GPS. On highways or on roads there are some speed limits i.e. 80KM, 100KM, Etc. In this project we make a road and set some speed limits, like 80KM, 100KM, 120KM, Etc. If a driver over speeds the vehicle and breaks the speed limit then a message of over speeding is sent to traffic police by using GSM Module. Then traffic police get the exact location of the car by using GPS. So, this concept will be very useful in future.
